Welcome back! Until now, we looked at a lot of services related to user. To retrieve user, to create a user,
to delete a user.
One of the things which we are not doing right now is validation.
So user has a name. We don't validate anything on the name. User has a birth date. I have validated anything in
here.
Validation is quite a common requirement in all the services. In this step,
we’ll look at using java validation API to add validations on our beans. When we get a request to create a user
we would want to validate the content and if it’s invalid,  we would want to return a proper response back.
Let's get started with that.
I would want to enable validation on this specific user.
So what I would need to do is add in something called at valid.
This is an annotation which is present in JavaX validation API.
This is defined by the Java validation API. We already have the Java validation in API and its default implementation
in the classpath
because of something called spring boot starter web. That’s the starter we are making use to develop these REST web services.
We'll talk about that at the end of this
video a little more.
For now let's focus on adding the validation. So at valid and user.
Now I would want to add a validation on the name. I would want to say at least names should have two
characters.
Let’s add that in. So I’ll say at size.
So I would want to put a restriction on size.
You can see it's coming from package Javax validation and constraints.
We are using the Java validation API. So at size and if I look at the attributes which are in there, you
can see that there's a minimum attribute.
I am going to say at size minimum is equal to two. The other thing
I would also want to say is, this should always be in the past. Birth date cannot be in the future.
So I would say at past and I would import the constraint in. Now, I've added the constraints in. I've added
at valid annotation of on the request method.
Let's see what happens when I fire in a request. So I'm saying localhost 8080 users.
I'm sending a post request body.
I selected raw and we chose
JSON application JSON.
And if I send a proper request, let’s say Ranga and he was born in 2002 zero seven nineteen and send it.
This gives me a proper response back.
It says two hundred and one created and the resource is created at users slash four. The location header is also
coming back.
Let's say I'm putting just R and sending it.
Now you see that I'm getting a 400 bad request because we have added in the validation.
That's pretty cool!
The fact that we are validating it, it's very good.
But if I didn't get this response back 400 bad request, if I look at the body there is nothing in here.
If I look at the headers there's nothing here. All that they get back is 400 bad request.
So what is bad?
What is the error that is happening?
How do they know about it?
Now we have added in the validations. The validations are working but we need to always when we create
services, when we create RESTful services, we need to think about the consumer.
So how does the consumer know about what is wrong.
So what we’ll do is we’ll add a simple message.
Think about where we’d add it.
We already created some exception handling.
Right?
Where did we create it?
That's right!
It's customized response entity exception handler.
We are extending response
entity exception handler in here. One of the methods which is defined in here is something called handle
method argument not valid.
So this is the method which is fired when binding to a specific method argument fails.
So what we are trying to do is binding to a method argument, right? So we are trying to get the request name
and birth date and we are binding it to the user object. And at that point we have a validation error. This
is the thing which is triggered when that happens.
So what we’ll do now is we’ll override this.
So I'll copy this method into the customized response handler.
And now I would want to override this. So at override.
That’s cool.
So now I would want to override this method. Over here,
I want to create my own exception definition.
I copied the default implementation we had from earlier.
The message is fine. All that I would want to change is,
give the consumer the details of what has went wrong and that's stored in something called binding result.
So get binding result.
That’s what has the details of what went wrong. So let's put get binding result dot to string in here.
So we would, we are actually creating a binding result dot toString and we're sending it out. The other
thing is this is HTTP status.
It's not not found. It’s bad request.
So this is a bad request and we are returning the details of the binding back.
Let's see what happens when I execute the request again. Bad request.
What does the body contain?
OK.
The body contains the message. Validation failed for argument at index 0 in method
So and so with one error. In the details,
Also, there are a lot of other details which are being sent back.
One of the important things is we are sending a lot of information out to the consumer right now.
So the consumer has a lot of information which is present about the validation error.
If you look at the response right now it's actually having a lot of duplication in . Message and details have
almost similar kind of details..
And I wouldn't want to send so much information out in the message.
So for this specific scenario what I will do is customize the message. So I'll say exception dot get message
I’ll say, instead of sending that I’d set validation failed.
Wait of the server to restart.
And I'm going to send the request again.
This is cool.
So now I have a time stamped message if validation failed.
The details of the validation failed message are in here.
So user and name and rejected value is so and so.
And you have the arguments.
We have a lot of details passed in and this might be useful for the consumer.
You can further customize this details as well.
What I’ll do is I’ll go to the user object and you can add in a customized message. So I can say
min is equal to two. And you can say message is equal to - name should have.
I want to add a simple message: name should have at least two characters.
And I'm saving this. Wait for the server to restart and execute it again.
Now you can see that the message is coming out. It's saying, name should have at least two characters.
That's the one which has failed. This exception message is providing a lot of details.
You might want to still customize it further and play around with the binding result.
So what you can do is actually go to the binding result. Binding result class and you would see a
lot of things which are present inside the binding result dot class. I can say something like get binding result
dot get.
You can say all errors and loop around all the errors and just print the message as well.
So there are a wide variety of things that you can do with the valuation messages.
Right now we are getting… giving a lot of detail to back.
You can actually customize the whole thing so that you can actually return just the validation error
messages back. Validations which we have used in this specific step
are at size. It has an attribute
min. And we use an attribute called at past as well.
And a annotation call at past as well. This checks if the birth date is a date in the past. Anything
greater than today’s date would result in a validation error.
All these validations are defined in something called validation API dot jar.
We’re using Java validation API.
We are using version one point one.
And what we are looking at right now is what are the different validations which are implemented in
there. If I look in the constraints package of the jar,
we would see that there are a lot of other validations which are defined. You have assert false
assert true. There is a max min for decimals.
So you can say, the maximum value is ten and minimum value is something. And you have digits, number of digits
that can be defined.
You can say that a date be in future and you have not null and null as well. So you can say a specific
field should always be null or a specific filed
should always be not null and we already looked at the past. We looked at the size as well.
And the other one is to enable us to define the regular expression pattern.
So this string should match this regular expression pattern.
The Java validation API defines all these validations.
I mean the most popular implementation of validation API is hibernated validator.
So hibernate validator implements whatever validations are defined in here.
We are getting these two jars because they are defined as dependencies in spring boot web starter.
We are developing a restful web service and we’re using the starter spring boot starter web and that's
how we get these two jars related to validation.
You can see that the fun part of working with Spring boot is the fact that we can directly get into
using the framework.
We don't really need to worry about configuring it or something like that.
All that we needed to do was open our user bean, define the validations and then we went to the user resource
and put in a annotation called at valid on the request body.
That's all we had to do to get all these validations working. In this video,
we started with talking about how to add validation about users.
And at the end we were able to customize the whole thing so that we can give a proper error validation message
to the user with a status of 400 which is a bad request. Until the next step, bye-bye.